.TH BETTY\-DOC 2 "October 2016" "1.0" "Betty doc man page"
.SH NAME
betty-doc \- Betty documentation checker for C source code
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B betty-doc
[OPTIONS]
.IR file
[file2\ [file3\ ...]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR betty-doc
checks the documentation of your C source code against Betty documentation specs
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.SH Output format selection (mutually exclusive):
.RS
.TP
.BR \-docbook
.br
Output \fBDocBook\fR format.
.TP
.BR \-html
.br
Output \fBHTML\fR format.
.TP
.BR \-html5
.br
Output \fBHTML5\fR format.
.TP
.BR \-list
.br
Output \fBsymbol list\fR format. This is the default.
.TP
.BR \-man
.br
Output \fBtroff manual\fR page format.
.TP
.BR \-rst
.br
Output \fBreStructuredText\fR format.
.TP
.BR \-text
.br
Output \fBplain text\fR format.
.RE
.TP
.SH Output selection (mutually exclusive):
.RS
.TP
.BR \-function\ \fINAME\fR
Only output documentation for the given function(s) or DOC: section title(s).
.br
All other functions and DOC: sections are ignored.
.br
May be specified multiple times.
.TP
.BR \-nofunction\ \fINAME\fR
Do \fBNOT\fR output documentation for the given function(s).
.br
Only output documentation for the other functions and DOC: sections.
.br
May be specified multiple times.
.RE
.TP
.SH Output selection modifiers:
.RS
.TP
.BR \-no\-doc\-sections
Do not output DOC: sections.
.RE
.TP
.SH Other parameters:
.RS
.TP
.BR \-v
.br
Verbose output, more warnings and other information.
.TP
.BR \-h
.br
Print \fBhelp\fR and exit.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR betty-style(1) ", " betty(1)
.SH BUGS
Please visit
.IR https://github.com/holbertonschool/Betty/issues
.SH AUTHOR
Alexandre GAUTIER, Copyright 2016 Holberton Inc.
