.TH BETTY\-STYLE 2 "October 2016" "1.0" "Betty style man page"
.SH NAME
betty-style \- Betty coding style checker for C source code
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B betty-style
[OPTIONS]
.IR file
[file2\ [file3\ ...]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B betty-style
checks the coding style of your C source code against Betty coding style
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Quiet mode
.TP
.BR \-\-tree
.br
Run with a kernel tree.
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-signoff
Do not check for 'Signed-off-by' line
.TP
.BR \-\-patch
Treat
.IR file
as a patchfile (default)
.TP
.BR \-\-emacs
Emacs compile window format
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-terse
Disable one line per report.
.TP
.BR \-\-showfile
Emit diffed file position, not input file position.
.TP
.BR \-g ", " \-\-git
Treat
.IR file
as a single commit or git revision range
.LP
.RS
Single git commit with:
.RS
<rev>
.br
<rev>^
.br
<rev>~n
.LP
.RE
Multiple git commits with:
.RS
<rev1>..<rev2>
.br
<rev1>...<rev2>
.br
<rev>-<count>
.LP
.RE
Git merges are ignored
.RE
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-file
Don't treat
.IR file
as regular source file.
.TP
.BR \-\-subjective ", " \-\-strict
Enable more subjective tests
.TP
.BR \-\-list\-types
List the possible message types.
.TP
.BR \-\-types\ \fITYPE\fR(,TYPE2...)
Show only these comma separated message types.
.TP
.BR \-\-ignore\ \fITYPE\fR(,TYPE2...)
Ignore various comma separated message types.
.TP
.BR \-\-show\-types
Show the specific message type in the output.
.TP
.BR \-\-max\-line\-length =\fIn\fR
Set the maximum line length, if exceeded, warn.
.TP
.BR \-\-min\-conf\-desc\-length =\fIn\fR
Set the min description length, if shorter, warn.
.TP
.BR \-\-root =\fIPATH\fR
.IR PATH
to the kernel tree root.
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-summary
Suppress the per-file summary.
.TP
.BR \-\-mailback
Only produce a report in case of warnings/errors.
.TP
.BR \-\-summary\-file
Include the filename in summary.
.TP
.BR \-\-debug\ \fIKEY=[0|1]\fR
Turn on/off debugging of
.IR KEY
, where
.IR KEY
is one of \fBvalues\fR, \fBpossible\fR, \fBtype\fR, and \fBattr\fR (default is all off).
.TP
.BR \-\-test\-only =\fIWORD\fR
Report only warnings/errors containing literally.
.TP
.BR \-\-fix
.br
.BR EXPERIMENTAL
- may create horrible results.
.br
If correctable single-line errors exist, create
.IR file.EXPERIMENTAL-checkpatch-fixes
with potential errors corrected to the preferred checkpatch style.
.TP
.BR \-\-fix\-inplace
.br
.BR EXPERIMENTAL
- may create horrible results.
.br
Is the same as \fB\-\-fix\fR, but overwrites the input file.
.br
It's your fault if there's no backup or git.
.TP
.BR \-\-ignore\-perl\-version
Override checking of perl version.
Expect runtime errors.
.TP
.BR \-\-codespell
Use the codespell dictionary for spelling/typos (default:\fI/usr/share/codespell/dictionary.txt\fR).
.TP
.BR \-\-codespellfile
Use this codespell dictionary
.TP
.BR \-\-color
Use colors when output is STDOUT (default: \fBon\fR).
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help ", " \-\-version
Display help and exit.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR betty-doc(1) ", " betty(1)
.SH BUGS
Please visit
.IR https://github.com/holbertonschool/Betty/issues
.SH AUTHOR
Alexandre GAUTIER, Copyright 2016 Holberton Inc.
